---
layout: post
title:  "What is the origin of human political behavior?"
date:   2022-08-20
category: 
    - politics
    - biology
---
The transition from the previous research objective: 
Why am I dealing with the origin of human political behavior? My previous research focused on one of the aspects of political behaviors. So, it is probably easy to apply the research to real-world problems. However, it is just one of the tips of the human political behaviors tree branches. From there, to look into more detailed mechanisms of the behaviors, it is worth looking into human behavior from an evolutionary point of view; it becomes a more integrated study. Therefore, the research provides a fundamental understanding of human behaviors (=the origin of human political behaviors). At least one of the examples for the understanding.


1. Introducing this objective with a question
    
    1.1. Why are political behaviors present in humans, homo sapiens, after evolution? -> Big objective!

2. General speculation of “the origin of human political behavior.”
    
    2.1. Natural selection is a theory we have relied on recently when talking about evolution.  And if that applies to human political behavior, there were probably conditions in which organisms with political behaviors were more likely to succeed in reproduction…or is it reversed? Does it mean that political behaviors were just one of the byproducts of human, homo sapiens, evolution?

3. Reading: “The Origin of Politics: An Evolutionary Theory of Political Behavior” by John Alford and John Hibbing
    
    3.1. The theory of evolution and natural selection proposed by Charles Darwin can explain most of the evolution.
    
    3.2. However, social animals’ evolution can hardly be explained by that because they cooperate to some degree!!!
    
    3.3. The article says that theories of “rational choices” and “behaviorism” explain two features of human behaviors in evolution.
        
    3.3.1. Rational choices-> nature of human behavior which stems from selfishness-> this lacks environmental variables which possibly influence the behavior
        
    3.3.2. Behaviorism-> human behaviors are affected by environmental factors-> this fails to explain why people react to the environment in the first place

4. So, a new theory is like this: “Humans are cooperative, but not altruistic; competitive, but not exclusively so.”-> “wary cooperation” proposed by the authors is based on that principle

5. In wary cooperation, a successful individual must have the following behaviors (quotes):

    5.1. cooperate with others in their in-group;
    
    5.2. dislike those in out-groups;
    
    5.3. punish or banish uncooperative in-group members;

    5.4. encourage others through norms, institutions, or moral codes to (1), (2), and (3);

    5.5. be ever sensitive to status, payoffs, and reputation relative to other in-group members;

    5.6. cease cooperating if the noncooperation of other members goes unpunished.

6. This way of becoming a successful organism takes other organisms (people) into account as one of the selection pressures of individuals.

7.Taking the ultimate sides of the behaviors mentioned in (d), there are extremely altruistic or extremely self-centered people.

8. By simulating which groups succeed the most among extreme-altruistic groups, wary cooperation groups, the wary-cooperation group “won” the evolution!

9. The authors' conclusion:

    9.1. “We are not suggesting that all political scientists become evolutionary theorists or adopt a certain methodological approach. We need a healthy disciplinary division of labor in service of a genuine theory of political and social behavior. To date in the social science disciplines that have embraced evolutionary theory, everything from participant-observation to pure mathematical game theory to laboratory (and field) experiments has been employed with fruitful results. As the old saw goes, “If you are looking in the right place there is no wrong way to look”*. Evolutionary theory has the potential to render obsolete our intradisciplinary conflicts over approach, method, and theory. It is more than a replacement for existing political science theories, since rational choice and behavioralism are simply not capable of supplying an account of ultimate causes. It is a true theory of the origins of behavior and as such provides a basis for bringing together the remarkably diverse and useful ongoing research in political science and beyond.”

    9.2 *Einstein said, “Without theory observation is impossible,” to which we would only add that with theory all methods of observation are useful.

10. The conclusion tells that it is of significance that the sciences probe the origin of human political behaviors because such attempts can critically discuss formerly proposed theories; then, to progress in political science research to look into the origin of human political behaviors, we must have a broad view on human social behaviors from different perspectives like social science, biology, mathematics, etc.

---
Reference:

Alford, J., & Hibbing, J. (2004). The Origin of Politics: An Evolutionary Theory of Political Behavior. Perspectives on Politics, 2(4), 707-723. [https://doi.org/10.1017/S1537592704040460](https://doi.org/10.1017/S1537592704040460)