---
layout: post
title:  "My passion for science connected to My research interests"
date: 2025-01-03
category:
    - thought organisation
---

# Why am I writing about my passion for science now?
I'm now about to get into my fifth year at university (the curriculum is technically fourth-year as I studied abroad for a year). I have been engaged in engineering work rather than sciency exploration. I have also organised, saying humbly, some events with help of people around me. When I studied abroad, I wanted to touch on something that people usually don't value as much in a field of biology – Indigenous studies, philosophy, software engineering, and cognitive science.

Coming back to my home physically in Tokyo and consciously in biological science, I realised the power of natural science especially biology – I don't deny my bias towards biology which fits my personality. From there I have been more leaned on training myself to develop my own research plans. Why? Just by following someone's idea is safe but not motivating.

Having said that, I started from following my prospective lab boss' ideas in a his class partly to showing him my wants to join his lab. From there it was thankful that I could start a little study with ants and simulations though it's literally just started. I thought it was going well so I just needed to continue my style of developing ideas for research. But, thankfully, it was not that easy. In a microbiology class, I was trying to come up with a small experiment idea, which took me hours with sort of implicit tricky assists from an instructor. I did manage to make one experiment though the words from the instructor really articulated what is lacking in my scientific skills.

Since I was told the words, it has been my challenge to think based on my experience, which sounds sooo basic but I was just not doing that mush until now. I think it was my habit to look for information that's already available inheritted from software development work, because I was just good at searching not remembering. Also, a firend of mine, what people think a smart guy, showed me how to connect dots of information from experiments so that they compliment each other.

All the things mentioned thus far happened just within a month though I realised that they were like a digests of my past several years of learning how to do science, which were not firmly dissolved in my skills so as to utilise them. But that's okay. I have now have many indexes of various knowldge fields that I can draw on from experience. Then, I'm ready try to get my a** do science.

The reason why I took distance from doing science wasn't because I'm not favour of it but I thought it wants more than what it is per se. Explicitly saying, science has got to reunite with other knowledges so that it can reach out its hands to what has not been possible. I honestly don't know exactly how we do that yet, and that should be my pursue after getting my masters. Why after masters? because I want to do sciency science now on for two years so that I can dissolve it in me. Then, after the masters, I can blend it with my non-sciency experience drawn from indexes I have made past several years with new ones I'm hoping to encounter during my PhD. I care about science so I learn what's far from science so that I can know what is good about it and how it needs others to do more.

# How do my past several years of non-sciency activities show my passion towards science that is connected to my research interests?

In a nut shell, I have done non-sciency stuff so that I can bring science to what it has not been able to reach.

The reason why I want to see science meeting other ways of perceiving the world is that my research question has araised from experience involving multifaceted problems, which is...

"*How do people with different backgrounds collaborate to reach a shared goal?*"

When I was a high school student, I joined a conference where students simulate themselves how the United Nations works. I faced neatly impossible challenge where representatives from countries all over the world somehow make a consensus and propose statements for eradication of poverty. Needless to say, it ended up with no consensus statements, and a chair of the conference was as vexatious as he had tears in his eyes.

Since then I wanted to somehow contribute to solving the problems that are associated with poverty. As a student who was interested in science, I came to know that one of the famous problems associated with poverty, global warming.

My high school small project was dedicated to knowing about how environment can be fairly treated in terms of the economic values. And as I was looking for the problem, I found an institution called Salk Institute where scientists modified plants to store more carbons than they do in wild. Though it was not my research topic, I was attracted by the study and that was my main motivation to enter the biological science department at my current university.

While I was studying in the 1st and 2nd grade, I unexpectedly had to learn humanities courses because of the university's motto and the requirements for my teacher's certificate course. It turned out to be very intellectually curious time in my life so far. I didn't know until then that knowing something is free and anything can be connected.

At the end of my 2nd year, I was planning to study abroad to gain experience from relatively non-scientific culture because it was too hard to miss chances to dig in possibilities of studies other than science which help me with exploring my research question. One of the chances was to join a new student club/community for developing products using techology to solve social issues. The other was to study abroad in Australia as an exchange student. Of course I tool both opportunities.

I experienced a lot of new things during my 3rd year apart from my major in biological science and I learned these points:

#### Philosophy
- Concenptual base of my interests e.g. developing abstract statement for my research question
- Objective measurements of logics e.g. induction, deduction, fallacies, etc.
from which I learned that logics can be systematically investigated via organised conceptual frameworks.

#### Indigenous (Dharug) studies
- Experiencing non-scientific epistemology e.g. notion of Country, relationality, etc.
- Recognising identities e.g. distinguished culture, individual sense
from which I learned that science is not the only way to prosper knowldge in the world.

#### Software engineering
- Team project management e.g. sharing a common criteria, division of concerns, etc.
- Structural understanding of subjects e.g. modularity, architecture, etc.
from which I learned that complexity can be handled by devising tools and structural understanding

####  Organising communities
- Collaboration via relationships, interests, and environments
- Inclusivness of expressions and understandings
from which I learned that human interactions with an embracing atmosphere are the source of new impactful ideas

#### Cognitive science
- Theory deriven natural science which was highly interdiscplinary study e.g. theories of multi-tracking objects by eyes
- Science that is impossible without the advancement of technology e.g. MRI, EEG, MEG, etc.
from which I learned that a theory and empirical practices both drive science

Even after exploring various ways to pursue my interests, for me, science has been the centred perspective of my pursue that gives me the most precise feeling of knowing in depth. In other words, I believe that science allows me to create a question that precisely reflects what I am intended to know.

In my 4th year (not graduating because I extended one year for studying abroad), I came back to practicing natural science. However, my perspectives has changed a bit from a year ago. 

"*How do people with different backgrounds collaborate to reach a shared goal?*"

into...

"*How genetically identical agents with different propensities together make an optimal decision?*"



